<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="running_the_open_toolkit">
 <title>Running The Open Toolkit</title>
 <shortdesc>You can use a DITA Open Toolkit Docker container from the command line just like the
    normal Open Toolkit.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>To run the Open Toolkit container you need to connect the directory containing the DITA source
      to be processed to the container and then specify the command-line parameters to the Open
      Toolkit's <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command (OT 2.x) or <cmdname>ant</cmdname> command (OT 2.x
      or 1.x). When you run the container you are simply running the normal Open Toolkit inside the
      container's Linux environment. All you need to know is how to specify the location of the
      input files.</p>
    <p>By default, the Docker machine automatically shares the <filepath>/Users</filepath> directory
      from the host machine with the Docker machine. This means your home directory is always
      available for mounting read/write to any Docker container.</p>
    <p>You connect host directories to container volumes using the <parmname>-v</parmname> parameter
      to the <cmdname>docker run</cmdname>
      command:<codeblock>$ docker run -v /Users/ekimber/workspace:/opt/dita-ot/data ditaot/dita-ot \
  dita -i /opt/dita-ot/data/pub-01/pub-01.ditamap \
  -f html5 \
  -o /opt/dita-ot/data/pub-01/out/html5</codeblock></p>
    <p>Under Windows you use <filepath>/c/Users/...</filepath> (assuming your Users directory is on
      the <filepath>c:</filepath>
      drive):<codeblock>C:\Users\ekimber>docker run <b>/c/Users</b>/ekimber/workspace:/opt/dita-ot/data ditaot/dita-ot \
  dita -v -i /opt/dita-ot/data/pub-01/pub-01.ditamap  \
  -o /opt/dita-ot/data/pub-01/out/html5 -f html5</codeblock></p>
    <p>After running the commands the output will be in the
        <filepath>/Users/ekimber/workspace/pub-01/out/html5</filepath> directory.</p>
    <note>With Docker for Windows, if you get a message that the input map can't be read it probably
      means that you need to manually share the Windows drive to Docker. Find Docker in the task
      bar, right click, and go to Settings/Shared Drives and make sure the drive you're mounting
      from is checked.</note>
    <p>By default the <cmdname>dita</cmdname> command does not produce any messages. If you want to
      see the messages add the <parmname>-v</parmname> parameter to the <cmdname>dita</cmdname>
      command. If you want to capture the log use the <parmname>-l</parmname> parameter and specify
      the log
      file:<codeblock>C:\Users\ekimber>docker run <b>-v</b> /c/Users/ekimber/workspace:/opt/dita-ot/data ditaot/dita-ot \
  dita -i /opt/dita-ot/data/pub-01/pub-01.ditamap  \
  -o /opt/dita-ot/data/pub-01/out/html5 -f html5 \
  <b>-l /opt/dita-ot/data/pub-01/logs/html5.log</b></codeblock></p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
